Before revolutionizing the hedge fund industry with his mathematics-based approach, 'Quant King' James Simons worked as a code breaker for the US Department of Defense during the Vietnam War, but was fired after criticizing the war in the press. He chaired the math department at Stony Brook University for a decade until leaving in 1978 to start a quantitative-trading firm. That firm, now called Renaissance Technologies, has more than $65 billion in assets under management among its many funds. Simons has always dreamed big. About 10 years ago, he announced that he was starting a fund that he claimed would be able to handle $100 billion, about 10% of all assets managed by hedge funds at the time. That fund, Renaissance Institutional Equities Fund, never quite reached his aspirations — it currently handles about $10.5 billion — but his flagship Medallion fund is among the best-performing ever: It has generated a nearly 80% annualized return before fees since its inception in 1988. In October, Renaissance shut down a $1 billion fund — one of its smaller ones — "due to a lack of investor interest." The firm's other funds, however, have been up and climbing. Simons retired in 2009, but remains chairman of the company. The quantitative trading genius behind Renaissance Technologies retired from his hedge fund firm in 2010, but he still plays a role at Renaissance and continues to benefit from its strong performance. The firm's biggest fund, Renaissance Institutional Equities, was up 21.5% net of fees in 2016. Investors have been rushing into Renaissance and the firm now manages some $36 billion. The firm has received more public attention recently because of co-CEO Robert Mercer's support of President Donald Trump. Simons has traditionally supported Democratic candidates and backed Hillary Clinton's presidential bid. The MIT grad was a codebreaker for the U.S. during the Vietnam War. In 1982 he founded Renaissance, using computer modeling to find inefficiencies in highly liquid securities. Simons has given away $2.1 billion to charity, chairs Math for America, and supports autism research.